


Standard Error Stream Handling "estream.h"

    Character Display Semantics

        Interface

            An indirect interface to the display device
            connected to the standard error stream (the
            display) is provided by the "estream.h" header
            file and associated object code.  If all writes
            to the standard error stream are accomplished
            via the "estream.h" interface (whether directly
            or indirectly), the semantics herein are
            enforced.
              By design, all output to the standard error
            stream flow through the interface provided by
            the estream.h header.
              The estream functions abort (N2176 7.22.4.1)
            on failure. Whereas the purpose of the standard
            error stream is to communicate to the user any
            program errors, continuing execution after an
            error occurs on the standard error stream would
            tend to mislead the user. And knowingly
            misleading the user is unacceptable.

        Display Width

            For the purposes of establishing constraints for
            the handling of the standard error stream, the
            display is assumed to have the same, finite
            number of positions N on each line.  The intent
            of this constraint is to prevent unspecified,
            undefined, and implementation-defined behavior
            and to facilitate well-defined behavior.

        Active Position

            Unless otherwise specified herein, a display
            connected to the standard error stream shall
            behave according to N2176 (5.2.2), "Character
            display semantics." Since
  
                "if the active position is at the final position
                "of a line (if there is one), the behavior of
                "the display device is unspecified"
                (N2176 5.2.2-1),

            the cursor is not allowed to advance to the
            final position.
              And since

                "the intent of writing a printing character...
                "is to display a graphic representation of that
                "character at the active position and then
                "advance the active position to the next
                "position on the current line" (N2176 5.2.2-1),

            for a given line, two fewer than N printing
            characters shall be written, because writing as
            many as one fewer than N printing characters may
            cause the active position to be advanced to the
            final position of a line.
              Therefore, the maximum number of printing
            characters to be printed on a single line is 
            two fewer than N.

        Character Set

            The display shall be capable of printing
            the graphic characters of the basic source
            character set as well as the space character,
            i.e., characters from among the basic printing
            characters.
              Each character written to the standard error
            stream shall shall be a new-line character
            (U+000a) or one of the characters of character
            set P.
              The effect of writing a graphic character
            shall produce a visible effect on the display:

                "to display a graphic representation of that
                "character at the active position and then
                "advance the active position to the next
                "position on the current line" (N2176 5.2.2).

        Buffering

            The standard error stream shall be line-
            buffered.
              The display shall be configured to present
            each line of the standard error stream on a
            single line of the display. And each line of the
            display that presents a line of the standard
            error stream shall present no other characters
            (e.g., from other sources such as the standard
            output stream). Lines of the display that do not
            present characters from the standard error
            stream may be generated.

        Spaces

            The effect of writing a space character shall
            produce a visible effect on the display: a
            request to write a space character followed by a
            new-line character shall result in a substitute
            graphic character being written instead of the
            space character, followed by a new-line
            character.

        Other Characters

            A request to write a character not in character
            set P shall be to write a substitute graphic
            character from the basic source character set.

    Line Display Semantics

            Physical lines are separated by end-of-line
            indicators, which are the only invisible symbols
            permitted to be sent to the display.
              Text is displayed using a two-column system.
            The second column contains the---possibly
            translated---characters explicitly sent to the
            standard error stream. Translation occurs
            according to the discussion under the "Spaces"
            and "Other Characters" headings, above.
              The first column of each physical line
            contains one of two graphic characters that
            indicate whether the current physical line is a
            new logical line or the continuation of a
            logical line.

    Macros

            The ESTREAM_HEIGHT macro is defined to be an
            integer constant.  The program shall behave as
            if ESTREAM_HEIGHT physical lines are available
            on the display.

            The ESTREAM_WIDTH macro is defined to be an
            integer constant.  The program shall behave as
            if ESTREAM_WIDTH character positions are
            available on each line of the display.

            The ESTREAM_MARGIN_LEFT macro is defined to be
            an integer constant that specifies the width of
            the first column as discussed under the "Line
            Display Semantics" heading.

            The ESTREAM_MARGIN_RIGHT macro is defined to be
            an integer constant that specifies the number of
            character positions at the right of each line
            that will not be written to. See also the
            discussion under the "Active Position" heading.

            The ESTREAM_TEXT_WIDTH macro is defined to be an
            integer constant that specifies the number of
            character positions in the second column (as
            discussed under the "Line Display Semantics"
            heading) that are available for writing.

            The ESTREAM_KW_ERROR, ESTREAM_KW_WARNING, and
            ESTREAM_KW_NOTE macros are defined to be string
            literals that are used by the estream_put_msg to
            notify the user of the message type.
            [//TODO: move macro definitions to estream_put_msg.h]

    Functions

            The estream_reset function initializes internal
            objects and prepares the program for processing
            output destined for the standard error stream.
            Unless the estream_reset function is called
            before writing to the standard error stream,
            the behavior of the estream interface is undefined.

            The estream_endline function starts a new
            logical line on a new physical line.

            The estream_flush function prompts the host
            system to display the text in the internal
            buffer by completing a line. A call to
            estream_flush should be necessary only during
            normal program termination.

            The estream_putc function sends #0 to the
            internal buffer.

            The estream_putx function sends a space
            character to the internal buffer.

            The estream_put_blank_line function writes a
            blank line.

            The estream_put_gap function [will be documented
            in a future release].

            The estream_wrap function starts a new
            physical line and continues the current logical
            line.

            The estream_room function returns the number
            of positions on the current line which are
            available for writing printing characters. The
            estream_room function is intended to support
            formatting such as word wrap.
