

Interactive-Attention--Signal Handling "sighnd.h"

            The header "sighnd.h" declares the
            sigint_respond and sigint_pending functions.

            The sigint_pending function tells whether an
            interactive attention interrupt is awaiting
            processing.

            The sigint_respond function must be called
            during program initialization in order for
            interactive attention signals to be handled the
            design intends.
              After program initialization, when an
            interactive attention signal is detected, the
            signal handler records the fact of detection by
            setting an internal flag and disabling
            interactive attention interrupts. If additional
            interactive attention signals are detected when
            the flag is set, there is no effect, since
            interactive attention interrupts are disabled;
            repeated attempts to raise and interactive
            attention signal count as a single signal.
              The sigint_respond function first disables
            additional interrupts from interactive attention
            signals. Then, if an interrupt is awaiting
            processing, it is processed. Finally, interrupts
            from interactive attention signals are enabled.
            Therefore, if no interrupt is awaiting
            processing, the net effect of the the
            sigint_respond function is to enable interactive
            attention signals.
              Processing an interactive attention interrupt
            constitutes prompting the user to indicate
            whether the program should continue or end.
              Future directions for the application of
            sigint_respond include the handling of
            interactive attention signals during processing,
            at times other than those when a process is
            awaiting user input, as during lengthy
            calculations or infinite loops. Additional
            options for program behavior subsequent to
            interruption may be added.
